Samuel Jacob DQs April 5th, 2022 - “Day of the Builders”
1.
The way in which “Day of the Builders” employs first-person perspective
throughout the short story added significantly to the overall feel and advancement
of the plot as the story progressed. In particular, the first-person point of view is
especially useful in hiding certain facts from the reader and revealing them at a
later point in the story. In the context of the “Day of the Builders”, the first-person
perspective is that of a native person to the land, describing their experience with
new, foreign visitors. Even within the first paragraph of the short story, the
narrator reveals that their people “were easy prey” and that they were easily
“distracted by new things or any semblance of finesse” (1). These descriptions
illustrate the naivety and isolated nature of the narrator’s people, who she
describes to be easily taken advantage of, like prey. As this was the very first
paragraph, the reader is set up to see the narrator’s people as one that was
easily subdued by foreign powers and more technologically advanced forces.
This can also be seen in the description of “the Builders”, who I assume to be
foreign researchers surveying the rich natural resources of the native land (1).
This places the narrator’s people in a secluded part of the world, only witnessed
by a few foreign individuals. This also explains the fascination of the Builders
when they see giant rock formations and fossilized plants. The narrator’s
description of the Builders regards them as highly intelligent, and their constant
mentioning of the Doctor’s lack of medical experience also reveals her
fascination and ignorance of modern scientific research.
2.
The “story of my people” found on page four of the short story is an important
testament to the value the Builders had for the native land of the existing people.
The passage, as stated by the narrator, was originally from the “first of [the] nine
sacred stones” that belong to the people of the land (4). However, now the
Builders had translated it and placed it on a metal plate that was hung at the
entrance of their command center. The story expresses the will of the native
people and the fears that come with foreign interference. The story recounts what
would happen if foreign powers overrun their land and subjugate their people,
introducing greed, violence, and death. The fact that the Builders placed this
story on their command center illustrates their will to ensure that this does not
happen, and the metal plate it is on acts as a reminder of that.
3.
Reading through the last part of the short story, the narrator appears to be a little
weary of the way the Builders are transforming their village, particularly with new
technology and amenities. This can be seen when the elders were “​provided with
well-furnished, temperature-regulated quarters in the residential skyrise” (5). An
example of the narrator’s dissatisfaction with the way the Builders are
transforming her village can be seen with the balcony railings, which they want
changed to wrought iron instead of glaring metal.
